Are Labor unlucky? Why are Labour
perceived to have been doing so badly?
Why are labor so unpopular so quickly?
The classic Labor argument is basically
that they are unlucky because they
inherited an extremely bad financial
situation from the Conservatives. This
is not really our fault. There was no
way of us knowing this would happen. And
what this reminded me of was a speech
given by Jeremy Hunt 2 and a half years
ago. At the time, people were very
unhappy because living stands were
falling, the economy was weak. And what
Jeremy Hunt said was, "We know that
living standards are falling and the
economy is weak." But it's not our fault
because there have been a series of of
black swan events. And now here we are 2
and a half years later with a Labor
government that have failed on the
economy in the exact precise exact
specific way that I predicted that they
would fail one year ago, 2 years ago,
four years ago, 5 years ago. And they
are now saying the same thing, which is,
"Oh my god, aren't we terribly unlucky?
How could we ever have predicted this?"
So this mistake, this what I'm going to
call naivity about wealth and naivity
about wealth distribution and
inequality, it's not just specific to
Labor. It's basically every established
political party in the Western world.
And it's not even just unique to the
political parties. This is basically a
failure of understanding of pretty much
the entire western elect intellectual
class. So was it fixable? Yes. If they
had listened to us, could they have
fixed it? Yes. So are they unlucky? No.
Was it predictable? Yes. Could something
have been done? Yes. Are Labour unlucky?
No. Uh I've been screaming about this
for five or six years. Something could
have been done. Something hasn't been
done. Labour should have been thinking
about it when they're in opposition.
Labour should have been thinking about
it before the election. They didn't.
That is why they're failing now. It's
not bad luck.